URL: https://www.npr.org/about-npr/1205385162/special-section-generative-artificial-intelligence

Generative Artificial Intelligence : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu --> Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art &amp; Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts &amp; Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts &amp; Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here &amp; Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts &amp; Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Generative Artificial Intelligence What audiences see and hear from NPR has always been, and always will be, the product of human beings. NPR has also always been a leader in finding creative uses for new technology. Special Series NPR Ethics Handbook Overview Accuracy Fairness Completeness Honesty Independence Impartiality Transparency Accountability Excellence Respect Putting Principles Into Practice Acknowledgments Editorial Guidance Special Section: Generative Artificial Intelligence October 12, 2023 9:48 AM ET What audiences see and hear from NPR has always been, and always will be, the product of human beings. NPR has also always been a leader in finding creative uses for new technology. If used thoughtfully, Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) is a tool that may be able to help us fulfill our mission as journalists, become more efficient in our work, and possibly help free staff up to do things that are more creative and critical to advancing our journalism. Accuracy Guideline: You are responsible for the content you create, with or without the use of GAI. Plagiarism and accuracy are major concerns with GAI, which scrapes the Internet for information and material, and uses that material to generate seemingly new products. We should always assume that what GAI comes up with is not original, and we don't know to what extent it is simply plagiarizing. If you use GAI to help you with your work, you are still responsible for the content of that work, and that includes making sure you are not plagiarizing. We must also check to ensure that the information GAI delivers is accurate and reliably sourced. We cannot assume that the information it delivers is correct. As technology evolves, our use of it will evolve as well, but our use will always be within the framework of the standards that guide all of our journalism. Completeness Guideline: Don't rely on GAI to include all angles of a story. GAI doesn't know what it doesn't know. As journalists we constantly question our assumptions, one of the most important being: Have we included all of the viewpoints and aspects of the story we are covering? We have a responsibility to make sure we are looking at every issue from multiple viewpoints. If you are using GAI as a reporting tool, it may well miss important aspects of a story. It's important that you be aware of that potential shortcoming throughout any reporting process that includes the use of GAI. Impartiality Guideline: GAI can't check its own biases, that's your job. GAI has no sense of ethics or morals. Those must come from you, the user, and you will be expected to ensure that anything you produce using GAI conforms to the standards laid out in this handbook. GAI may seem autonomous, but it is the product of human beings. As such, it shares and can exacerbate the biases of those who created and programmed it, as well as the biases of the material that was used to train it. As we use it we must be on the lookout for those biases just as we always must look out for our own biases, those of our sources and those of our colleagues. Transparency Guideline: If GAI played a significant role in your reporting you should share that fact with your audience. As the main transparency section of this handbook says, " We reveal as much as we practically can about how we discover and verify the facts we present." As we do with the other aspects of our journalism, if GAI plays a significant role in the reporting of a story, we should reveal that fact to our audience. If you're not sure whether your use of GAI was significant enough to include in your story, discuss it with Standards and Practices. Guideline: We must protect our own work. Because GAI systems learn from data, they may take anything we put into them and add it to their knowledge base. As a result, no NPR employee should ever put any of NPR's intellectual property into any GAI system that NPR has not approved for such use. NPR's intellectual property includes everything you have created in the process of your work — from your notes, to your draft of a story, to memos about coverage ideas. Excellence Guideline: GAI when used correctly can help us be better journalists. GAI does, however, open up a whole realm of possibilities. It is a great tool for some tasks that are "hard to do but easy to verify," such as helping identify key themes in large documents. NPR is introducing approved AI products to help journalists in their work. We also are providing guidance on how to safely use these tools for tasks, including assistance with research, transcription and workshopping headlines. As we work with these tools, we will become more familiar with what they can and cannot be used for. Our review policies will likely change, as will this guidance. As media outlets continue to incorporate AI technology in various ways, NPR will remain among those that choose to keep humans firmly in control. Keeping that control will mean we are upholding our journalistic standards even as we find ways of incorporating GAI into our work. Facebook Flipboard Email Read &amp; Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts &amp; Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor
