URL: https://www.npr.org/people/g-s1-79588/erica-osher

Erica Osher : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu --> Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art &amp; Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts &amp; Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts &amp; Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here &amp; Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts &amp; Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Erica Osher Erica Osher is NPR’s Vice President of AI Labs. In this role, she oversees NPR’s AI strategy as a business leader driving NPR’s exploration of opportunities related to artificial intelligence. Osher is focused on developing and leading programs that build trust, augment NPR team capacities and innovate with emerging AI tools in support of NPR’s public service mission. Stories By Erica Osher Enlarge this image Mike Morgan/NPR Mike Morgan/NPR Erica Osher Vice President, AI Labs Erica Osher is NPR's Vice President of AI Labs. In this role, she oversees NPR's AI strategy as a business leader driving NPR's exploration of opportunities related to artificial intelligence. Osher is focused on developing and leading programs that build trust, augment NPR team capacities and innovate with emerging AI tools in support of NPR's public service mission. Osher is an experienced business leader and media professional. Prior to joining NPR, she was Vice President of Sponsorship Products and NPM Creative at National Public Media LLC (NPM). While at NPM, Osher was a business lead in a cross-functional team that founded and developed NPR's AI Labs initiative, co-writing NPR's AI guidelines and developing pilot programs. She also served in a transitional role, supporting NPR as its General Manager of AI Labs since December 2024. During her 14 years with NPM, Osher founded and led the NPM Creative team, an in-house creative agency and sponsorship product development team for NPR digital platforms. She was a key member of the NPM Management team and helped lead sponsorship strategy for NPR.org and NPR apps, as well as voice platforms, newsletters and third-party platform channels like YouTube. Osher was an executive producer for the Tech Unheard podcast from Arm, as well as the YouTube podcast The Upload , which won a PR Daily award for best branded podcast. She also previously managed user experience at Insider Pages and was an associate producer at CBS Radio. Osher holds an MIT Certificate in Applied Business Analytics, Scrum Certification, and is an IAAP Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies. She is a lifelong NPR fan and is proud to contribute to NPR's public service mission. Story Archive Subscribe to NPR's Up First Email Tuesday October 21, 2025 NPR Extra Global study on news integrity in AI assistants shows need for safeguards and improved accuracy October 21, 2025 &#149; NPR participated in a global research study led by the BBC and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) on news integrity in AI assistants. The study found that AI assistants routinely misrepresented news content. More from Erica Osher Load more stories Browse archive or search npr.org Read &amp; Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts &amp; Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor
