URL: https://www.npr.org/people/1227635672/julie-rogers

Julie Rogers : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu --> Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art &amp; Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts &amp; Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts &amp; Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here &amp; Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts &amp; Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Julie Rogers Julie Rogers is NPR's Senior Manager, Archives Strategy & History. Stories By Julie Rogers Enlarge this image Wanyu Zhang/NPR Wanyu Zhang/NPR Julie Rogers Senior Manager, RAD Julie Rogers is NPR's Senior Manager, Archives Strategy & History. Her role sits at the critical intersection of history, archives, data and technology. As a key member of NPR's Research, Archives & Data Strategy team (RAD), she consistently demonstrates a unique blend of skills—technical proficiency, historical expertise, and strong advocacy—and operates effectively as both a proactive strategic leader (developing data standards) and a critical operational responder (leading data recovery post-migration). Rogers plans and implements strategic initiatives with the goal of ensuring the high functionality, discoverability, reuse, and preservation of NPR storytelling throughout its lifecycle. With RAD, she is working to build a comprehensive inventory of NPR content and media in all formats and across all platforms since the network's creation. Her recent accomplishments include: championing digital preservation and safe storage policies at NPR; developing standards for RAD's archival rescue and data backfill initiatives; and implementing a long-term digital preservation plan for legacy web assets. She is a subject matter expert in archives and metadata systems and was co-lead of the NPR AI Labs Tagging pilot. Rogers is NPR's first historian and came to NPR in 2015. Her efforts have made the NPR archive usable and available to new audiences, especially researchers, scholars, and students. Collaborating with colleagues at the University of Maryland and the Library of Congress, Rogers successfully presented grant applications to support the digital preservation of NPR content. Rogers also documents and promotes NPR institutional history with the goal of increasing visibility for the archives in the organization. She has initiated several outreach and research projects including capturing oral histories and co-founding the NPR Employee Resource Group, Voices of NPR . Before joining NPR, Rogers worked at The Atlantic and The Washingtonian. S he was a Public History Fellow at the White House Historical Association and a Junior Fellow at the Library of Congress. Rogers has a master's degree in public history from American University and a master's degree in publishing from George Washington University; she received her bachelor's degree in history and political science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Story Archive Subscribe to News Alerts Tuesday December 21, 2021 'Enfoque Nacional' logo, circa 1979. NPR hide caption toggle caption NPR 'Enfoque Nacional': An Introduction December 21, 2021 &#149; Enfoque Nacional was NPR's first Spanish-language newsmagazine, co-produced with KPBS and broadcast weekly from 1979-1988. Listen to select stories on NPR.org and NPR One. Wednesday April 28, 2021 Stan Barouh/Courtesy of the artist 50 Years Of NPR A Timeline Of NPR's First 50 Years April 28, 2021 &#149; Monday, May 3, 2021, marks the 50th anniversary of NPR's first on-air original broadcast. Look back at the network's history through a linear timeline. More from Julie Rogers Load more stories Browse archive or search npr.org Read &amp; Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts &amp; Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor
