URL: https://www.npr.org/2025/07/14/g-s1-77526/erica-osher-named-vice-president-ai-labs

Erica Osher named Vice President, AI Labs : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu --> Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art &amp; Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts &amp; Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts &amp; Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here &amp; Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts &amp; Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Erica Osher named Vice President, AI Labs Erica Osher will be joining NPR to serve as its Vice President, AI Labs starting July 28. Special Series Press Releases and Statements Contact NPR Media Relations Erica Osher named Vice President, AI Labs July 14, 2025 4:12 PM ET Erica Osher hide caption toggle caption July 14, 2025; Washington, D.C. — Erica Osher will be joining NPR to serve as its Vice President, AI Labs starting July 28. Prior to joining NPR, Osher was Vice President of Sponsorship Products and NPM Creative at National Public Media LLC (NPM). While at NPM, Osher was a business lead in a cross-functional team that founded and developed NPR's AI Labs initiative, co-writing NPR's AI guidelines and developing pilot programs. She also served in a transitional role, supporting NPR as its General Manager of AI Labs since December 2024. As Vice President, AI Labs, Osher will oversee NPR's AI strategy as a business leader driving NPR's exploration of opportunities related to artificial intelligence. She'll be charged with developing and leading programs that build trust, augment NPR team capacities, and innovate with emerging AI tools in support of NPR's public service mission. "Erica has demonstrated curiosity, leadership, and collaboration as interim GM of AI Labs — leading pilots, seeking new partnerships, and ensuring our work drives towards innovation while upholding NPR's mission and values," said Ryan Merkley, NPR's Chief Operating Officer. "She's worked closely with member organizations, industry leaders, and NPR staff across teams and I'm thrilled she's joining our team." "I couldn't be more excited about this opportunity," said Osher. "I'm a lifelong NPR fan, and all of my prior work at NPM has been done with the aim of supporting NPR's public service mission. Our people and principles are this organization's greatest assets. We're at a transformational moment for technology and for journalism, and I'm eager to explore AI solutions that reinforce our values, maintain trust among audiences, and strengthen NPR's ability to innovate." During her 14 years with NPM, Osher founded and led the NPM Creative team, an in-house creative agency and sponsorship product development team for NPR digital platforms. She was a key member of the NPM Management team and helped lead sponsorship strategy for NPR.org and NPR apps, as well as voice platforms, newsletters, and third-party platform channels like YouTube. Osher was an executive producer for the Tech Unheard podcast from Arm, as well as the YouTube podcast The Upload, which won a PR Daily award for best branded podcast. She also previously managed user experience at Insider Pages and was an associate producer at CBS Radio. Osher holds an MIT Certificate in Applied Business Analytics, Scrum Certification, and is an IAAP Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies. About NPR NPR's rigorous reporting and unsurpassed storytelling connects with millions of Americans every day — on the air, online, and in person. NPR strives to create a more informed public — one challenged and invigorated by a deeper understanding and appreciation of events, ideas, and cultures. Every day, NPR and its Member organizations work together to tell the story of the whole country from everywhere in the country. No other news organization has the same on-the-ground reach as public media. Approximately 99% of the U.S. population is within the broadcast listening area of one or more public radio stations. This network includes thousands of journalists at nearly 250 NPR Member stations across the country, in addition to the hundreds of journalists working at NPR. NPR also has staff stationed at more than a dozen international bureaus. Audiences can experience NPR through their local Member stations ( npr.org/stations ), NPR.org , smart speakers (just ask Alexa to "Play NPR"), or by downloading the NPR app. Get more information at npr.org/about and by following NPR Extra on Facebook , LinkedIn , Threads , Bluesky , and Instagram . Media contact mediarelations@npr.org Facebook Flipboard Email Read &amp; Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts &amp; Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor
